- So, okay, let's get started.
A question we frequently
come across is someone says
"Well, I don't know about
X3 because I'm training
to fire, training to engage
my type two B fibers.
I'm trying to get to a
certain type of fiber,
which I know I'm more predisposed."
Like somebody who uses (murmur)
they're like "I'm only
training my fast-twitch fibers
and my slow-twitch fibers."
It amazes me that there
are still people believing
that you can train a certain fiber
and not another certain fiber,
based on its fiber type.
Now there is such a thing as fiber type,
and they do engage at different rates.
Now when I tell you the rates,
you'll understand how stupid
this line of thinking is.
So, this is just from physiology text
like, text, this has been
around since the 1970's
and we've known this.
So, probably before most of you were born.
So slow-twitch fiber, which is type one,
engages in 100 milliseconds,
so way less than a second.
Type two A, fast-twitch,
the difference between
slow and fast, 50 milliseconds,
so it fires twice as fast.
But that's in a window of time
that is immeasurable by humans.
I mean, instruments can measure it, but
you can't snap your
fingers 100 milliseconds
or 50 milliseconds apart.
Then of course, type two B is very fast,
it's 25 milliseconds.
So, the point is, you're engaging a muscle
when you exercise, when you
use extra or you lift weights,
and if you're contracting that muscle,
and you're conscious of that contraction,
you're engaging everything.
And everything grows, when you stimulate,
when you take the musculature to fatigue.
Whether it's standard
training, obviously a greater
level of fatigue with X3,
greater level of growth with
X3, but you're fatiguing
all of these things, they're all firing,
it's the speed of activation,
that's the only thing.
So you can't really train
for a specific fiber type.
So, it is information
that, while it exists,
is highly meaningless to
you; therefore you should not
pay attention to it.
There are many more other
things that you should
pay attention to that are other than that.
So that is today's Falsehood of Fitness,
I'm back-to-back multiple podcasts,
I'm headed to Greece to
launch Osteostrong there,
I'm giving a couple lectures
to sorta medical authorities
in that country and they're all coming
to Athens to hear me so talk,
so let's hope I don't screw that up.
That's okay, I practice this quite a bit.
And same presentation that I gave at the
International Osteporosis
Foundation Conference
couple weeks ago in Sydney
right before Christmas.
So very exciting, and I'll
share some of the comments
and exciting things from that, and then
come back for a week, I'll
do another Falsehood Fitness
not next week but the week after,
and then I head to Iceland
after that for some more
Osteostrong openings,
Osteostrong's on fire, lot of people with
greater bone density, lot
of happy people out there.
Some people are just higher
performing athletes because
they're fracture resistant
who use Osteostrong.
But the people who I care most about
are the ones like my mother,
which is why I invented it.
These are the people who had a real need.
They were at-risk of
fracture, and are no longer
at risk of fracture, because
they have strong bone.
So, Osteostrong delivers,
So thanks for tuning in, I
know this is a quick one,
I'll have time for
questions probably the next
Falsehoods of Fitness,
have a great weekend.